What is going on, guys? Welcome back to
the channel.
Today, [music]
we are going to be looking at how to
animate your characters,
>> [music]
>> your background,
or your whole scene.
So, let's get right into it.
So, there's a couple ways you can
approach this.
You could either start with the
background,
and then get the character into the
background. [music]
You could start with the character, and
then make a background around it.
Or, you could just make a full scene.
So, we're going to try all three of
them.
So, let's try to make the background
first.
I'm going to go to creator,
but you can go to either Aseprite,
Pixelorama, or here.
And I'm going to use
the create image pro
tool,
which lets me do all of these different
sizes.
So, you can either do a 1x1 aspect
ratio, or you can do 16x9,
3x2, 2x3, etc. [music]
So, let's try
384x216.
I'm going to try that.
So, I'm going to prompt an ancient
[music] forest shrine. I'll do magical
fantasy pixel art background, side view,
just to make sure we got the
perspective, and I'll make sure to
prompt no
characters,
cuz right now I'm just looking for a
background.
So, I'll just hit generate,
and let's see what we get. All right,
cool.
So, we got a pretty nice scene right
here.
And now,
we could actually get the character into
it, right? So,
what we could do is we could either go
to edit [music] in Pixelorama,
which will take us to Pixelorama, and we
can edit it there and do whatever we
want there.
Or, we can take it into Aseprite.
So, what I'm going to do is I'm going to
copy it
right here,
and I'm going to go to Aseprite. I'm
just going to paste it. And now, here,
I'm going to work on it. Let's see.
So, the first thing I would do with this
beautiful scene
is use our new pixel correction tool,
which allows us to basically clean it
up,
and maybe reduce some colors, you know,
make it look more cohesive.
>> [music]
>> So, I'm going to set the image,
and I'm not going to do a lot of
strength. [music] I'm going to do like
five.
Let's try that. I'm going to do new
frame.
And as you can see,
it reduces a lot of the noise that we
had. And you can, of course, do even
less [music] strength. So, we can do
like two, maybe. Let's try that.
So, yeah.
With two, it was perfect, honestly. It
just reduced some of the colors,
>> [music]
>> made it a little bit even more
contrasty,
but it does leave the details, you know?
The wooden textures and stuff like that.
So, now that we have that cleaned up,
right?
Now, we can go ahead
and add [music] a character. So, since
we were using the pro tool, and [music]
the 384x216
size is already supported,
we can actually go to the inpaint,
inpaint V3,
which would be
>> [music]
>> inpaint pro, basically, and we can
inpaint our character right in the
scene.
So, I'm going to go to the inpainting
layer. I'm just going to draw
where I want my character to appear.
So, I would say something like this.
It doesn't have to be perfect. The model
is pretty smart. So, I'm going to
describe
a young mage full body fantasy sprite
wearing a robe [music] and staff,
facing slightly toward the altar. And
now, I'm just going to choose the output
method, which will be new layer [music]
with changes,
because that'll just keep whatever we're
adding, and not the full background. And
we're going to do remove background. As
you can see, there's also the use
selection tool to select painting area,
and that is more for like bigger
pictures or unsupported [music] canvas
sizes.
But since this is a supported size,
it'll work without it.
>> [music]
>> So, I'm just going to click generate.
And look at that.
That's a pretty cool mage.
So, as you can see, we only get the
edited thing,
and not the full image.
And now, we can basically remove the
background from him. So, we can go to
remove background.
So, we do mage
with staff for the description.
And we'll just hit generate.
And there we go. It perfectly removed
the background. Now, we just fix these
small little pixel details,
and we should be all good.
Yep, yep. Now,
we have
our character
and our background.
And now, we can basically
animate
both,
or
both of them together. So, let's explore
that.
So, what I would probably do first is
animate the character.
So, we have the character right here,
and we could probably just take him, and
take him into a new
128x128
canvas,
so he fits right in.
And we could go and do something like
[music]
animate. And if you wanted to do like an
idle animation,
we could do
interpolate new,
and we could do the start image and end
image
to be the same one.
We could prompt something like
breathing idle, glowing stone,
hair moving, clothing moving with the
wind. And we can just click enhance
prompt. There we go. We have a much more
detailed prompt. Now, we can choose the
number of frames, of course.
Depending on the size of your canvas,
you get more or less frames.
With 128x128, we get up to
16 frames. So, let's do something like
eight frames. We'll do remove
background, new frame,
and let's hit generate. All right.
Cool.
Let's play it all together.
All right, that's nice. So, we can just
clean it up, of course, these stray
pixels.
Also, make sure the outline is proper.
As I always mention in every video, make
sure to clean your sprites up. You want
it to be perfect.
So,
just clean it up.
All right. So, let's say we're done with
this animation.
>> [music]
>> Now, we can take this back
to here,
make a new layer, just paste it in. And
now, we can just move our character to
where he belongs.
I'm going to rename the layers just so
we know who is who. And now, we can see
our character breathing in our scene.
Of course, you can reduce colors. You
can, if you have a certain palette you
like,
you can go ahead and reduce the colors
with your palette.
Or, you can just automatically reduce
colors,
or specify the amount of colors you
want. And you can process all of your
frames. So, let's try that. I'm going to
specify like, what, 30 colors? Let's try
new layer,
and let's quantize.
And as you can see, the colors are more
cohesive.
Here, you can see it shifts a lot with
the lighting and stuff.
Quantized.
Much better. And like I said, you can
use your own palette. [music]
We can try it here.
And there you can see how it works with
a certain [music] color palette. Of
course, the results may vary, depending
on how many colors your palette actually
has,
but this is just a nice example.
All right, cool.
So, I'm going to take this one. I'm
going to bring it back here.
I'm going to make one more new layer.
I'm going to move it just so it matches.
There we go.
Call it mage.
And [music] there we have it. All right,
cool.
So, now, the next step would be to kind
of animate the background, right?
So, we would have to do this in parts.
So, I'm just going to show you one of
the parts, instead of doing the whole
thing,
because that would take a lot of time.
Of course, remember you can always add
stuff to make it look more realistic,
right? So, since we have these in
layers, right? We have the mage in the
background.
We don't really have a shadow for the
mage. So, keep in mind
to always be creative and, you know,
maybe add a shadow here just to make it
make more sense, you know? Makes it look
more real, like it's part [music] of the
scene. All right, so the next step, I
think, will be editing the background.
[music] So, let's try that.
I kind of want the water to be flowing.
So, let's try that first. Let's go to
animate. [music] Let's go to interpolate
new.
I'm going to clear this.
And I'm going to change the canvas size.
So, let's do 256 by 256.
As you can see, we kind of have missing
>> [music]
>> areas.
But, that's fine because we can just
make a new layer,
put it below the background.
And now we can just fill it in
with the black color. And we have like
cinematic
lines or borders, right? So, now
>> [music]
>> I think I'm going to remove the
character so we can just animate the
background. And let's prompt. Well,
[snorts] first let's set the start and
end image.
Now, let's prompt water flowing loop.
>> [music]
>> Now, let's enhance the prompt.
Here you go.
And let's do number of frames eight.
So, it's going to make six frames
since [music] it's taking the first and
last frame as one of them already. So,
let's just do modify current layer.
I'm not going to remove the background
this time. [music]
And let's hit generate.
All right, and let's check it out.
All right, that's a cool looping
animation for the water.
So, as you can see, all the lighting and
everything kind of shifts a bit
because, I mean, we are animating a
pretty big pixel art image.
So, of course, you could like
reduce colors, etc. But,
the reason I said we would have to do
this kind of [music] in parts is because
this will be my workflow.
So, instead of just trying to manipulate
the whole thing,
I would kind of just cut the water
part off
and have the whole other part of the
image be the same, right? [music]
So, let's do that. Right now, I just
want
everything but the [music] water. So,
I am going to select the water
and
I'm going to go [music] to select and
inverse.
So, that way I can select all of this.
I'm going to copy that
and I'm going to paste it in every
single frame.
And that way, if we play it now, you can
see it's just the water
that's animated.
Which I think is pretty cool.
Now, if we bring the mage back,
you see, [music]
the water's animated, the mage is
animated. Now, we could probably animate
this light, right? [music] And this like
neon texts. So,
let's do that.
I'm going to hide the mage one more time
and
I'm going to go back to interpolate
using the same first and last frame.
Now, I'm going to prompt
>> [music]
>> the light glows slightly and the neon
texts also glows slightly. Don't mind my
bad prompting because we're going to
enhance the prompt. So, let's enhance
the prompt.
And now, instead of modify current
layer, I'm going to do
new layer
>> [music]
>> cuz I don't want to get rid of
the water animation.
So, let's do that. Boom, new layer.
[music]
All right, so this is nice. It's kind of
glowing and lighting that part up.
[music]
So, I'm going to do the same thing I did
before.
>> [music]
>> I'm going to just
select
the parts that I want [music] to keep
animated, which is the altar, basically.
Wherever the light hits. And now, I'm
just going to inverse, copy that.
Now, I'm going to go to our new layer.
And there we go. Boom, boom.
I kind of missed a little bit of here on
top, but I can easily [music]
get that.
So, again, I'm just going to select what
I want to keep.
Select, [music] inverse,
copy that,
go to our new layer,
>> [music]
>> and just paste it.
And boom, there we have it. Now that we
have that, we can go back
to our regular size, which was 384 384
by 216.
And as you [music] can see, we didn't
click trim content outside the canvas.
So, it's keeping all of our stuff.
>> [music]
>> So, if we click okay, we're back here.
Now, you can see we don't have [music]
the side borders here, right? So, we got
to take that from [music] our main
background. So, we'll go here, select
that, and just paste it.
So, we have the light [music] animated.
Now, we need to kind of cut off this
part [music] right here
so we can have our water flowing.
And look at that.
We have the water flowing, we got the
light glowing,
and
we have our mage breathing and idling.
[music]
All right, so now that we figured out
how to animate the character, how to
animate [music] the background, and
basically different parts of the
background and stitch them together, now
I think it's time to animate the whole
scene.
So, you can see all three different kind
of workflows we can have depending on
what we really want to work with [music]
cuz sometimes you don't need layers.
Like if if you're not going to do any
parallax or anything crazy within like a
game or actually [music] having the
player move something like the character
or whatever. If you just want the scene
to be animated, we can also do that. So,
[music]
let's change the canvas size again.
Let's do 256 by 256
and let's go to
>> [music]
>> edit image. Let's do edit image pro and
let's set the image, [music] of course.
And now, let's prompt it to move the
character to be standing in front of the
light looking at it. Actually, I'm going
to do it with the last
with our last frame from our animation.
And let's do new frame.
All right, so that's cool.
Now, I want to just keep the character,
of course. So, let's go to remove
background and let's
>> [music]
>> do complex and just keep the mage with
the magic staff. And yeah, we can modify
the current layer. Let's do that. All
right. Cool. Let's just fix it up real
quick.
Nice.
>> [music]
>> Now, I'm just going to copy and paste
this frame just so we have a duplicate.
And I'm going to move our mage right
here.
So, now
as you can see, the colors are kind of
different. So, I'm just going to try to
match at least the blue,
you know, the brown,
kind of like the hair color as well.
All righty. Maybe also the gold right
here. Cool. That looks good. So, [music]
now we can try to interpolate that so we
can make it walk up to the light.
So, let's try to do that. We're going to
go to animate, interpolate new, select
this as our start frame,
and then this as our end image.
>> [music]
>> And you know what? We could actually try
to reduce the canvas size
and make it
work like this. So, the limits on the
canvas size for interpolate and animate
with text new [music] are 256 in height
and 256 in width. So, you can't do
different aspect ratios with higher
numbers than that. So, let's try this.
We'll do, I don't know, 142, whatever.
[music] And let's put it right here.
Make sure it's all properly lined up.
Click okay.
And now,
let's do start image and [music]
end image.
And as you can see, now we got more
frames to work with
since our canvas size is smaller. So,
let's try to do
12 frames and let's prompt the mage
[music]
walks up to the light. And let's do new
frame and hit generate. All right, so
let's check it out.
I think we can try with more frames,
honestly.
Cuz it kind of skipped a step right
here.
That was pretty good, not going to lie.
So, let's try one more time. I'm going
to do 14 frames cuz remember, our first
and last frame are taken into account,
so we're getting 12 frames in between.
So, let's just hit generate one more
time.
All right, so let's check it out. So,
let's play it.
Cool, so we got we got the full
movement.
So, now it will be a matter of cleaning
[music] it up
and maybe even like
separating the character from the
background in each frame so we can just
keep the character. I think I think we
can do that. Let's try that. Cuz of
course, we got to clean our character
up. So,
first, I would probably just take the
eyes because that's one of the most
obvious differences. See? Now that makes
more sense. Now we can [music] kind of
like clean this up, you know? It's a
matter of being happy with
>> [music]
>> your own sprite. But moving on cuz this
would take me a bit of time.
Let's remove the background. So, let's
go to remove background. I would
honestly move [music] the canvas this
this so the character is kind of
centered cuz the tool works best when
the subject you want to keep is kind of
centered. And I'm also going to change
the canvas size to 128 by 128 so we can
just focus on the character.
So, let's [music] do that.
All right, cool. Now we have our mage.
It got one of the mushrooms, but that's
fine. We can get rid of that easily. Of
course, we want to fix up whatever
outlines or whatever you feel like you
need to fix up. Remember, this is of
course personal tastes and also goals on
how you want your sprites to look. But
hopefully, you want them to be
beautiful.
All right, so onto the next frame.
All right. I almost removed this
perfectly. Again,
always count on having to do some kind
of manual cleanup, which is always also
good practice cuz you don't want to lose
your skills. And this is really good
editing practice.
>> [snorts]
>> And for example, I think this would be a
nice use case for our tool called pixel
correction, also. Remember, we used it
on the background? Well,
think we can also use it here.
So, let's try that.
Let's modify the current layer.
See how it makes it look more cohesive?
Before and after.
Of course, you can play with the
strength. Again, [music] we can use
something like two instead of three or
four or five or
it really depends on your sprite and how
much you want it to change
and kind of
quote unquote fix.
All right, so let's keep going.
Let's do this one now. So, back to
remove background.
Again, clean it up.
All right, next frame.
All righty.
Same process.
Now I'm going to move the canvas just to
center the character again [music]
cuz remember, we're going to go back to
our original canvas size, which was 384
by 216. But we're just separating this
character real quick.
And there, we did the separate
animations for the character and the
background. We also did animation for
the whole scene, kind of. Not the whole
scene, but getting stuff inside the
scene to work together. So, getting the
mage from point A to point B. You can do
the same thing with a door opening, etc.
So, if you like this, don't forget to
hit that like button. Comment down below
what you want to see next and subscribe
so you don't miss any of our videos.
Thanks for watching and I'll catch you
in the next one.